Class Exercises and Solutions:
Exercise I - Display Sales and Sales +15% side by side on a chart with labels.
1. Create the Sales +%15 calculated field.
   1. Right click on the Sales pill and choose create calculated field.
   2. Name the field as desired.
   3. The calculation should be: [Sales]*1.15
   4. Click ok to close the window and create the object.
2. Drag Order Date to columns.
3. Drag Measure Names to Rows.
4. Drag Measure Names to filters. Filter Measure Names to only Sales and your newly created Sales +15% calculation.
5. Drag Measure Values to the Text box on the Marks card.
Solution: Listed next to each other, the Sales in 2013 should be 2,852,360 and the Sales +15% should be 3,280,214.


Exercise II - Use a reference line to illustrate which Region is falling below the overall Profit for all Product Categories.
1. Drag Regions to columns.
2. Drag Product Categories to columns to the right of Regions. This should show all the Product Categories within each Region.
3. Drag Profit to Rows.
4. Right click on the Y (Profit) axis and choose Add Reference Line...
   1. We want the average across all Regions and Product Categories, so set the Scope to Entire Table.
   2. Ensure that the Value is set to Sum(Profit) Average.
   3. Adjust the Label as desired.
   4. Click Ok to create the reference line.
5. Examine the chart with the reference line.
Solution: The newly created reference line reflects the average profit of all categories across all Regions. The South region is performing  noticeably lower than the overall average.


Exercise III - Create a Shipping Cost to Sales Ratio calculation and determine which Product Sub-Category has a Shipping Cost to Sales Ratio greater than 3%.
1. Right click on Shipping Cost and choose Create a Calculated Field...
   1. Name the field as desired.
   2. The calculation should read SUM([Shipping Cost])/SUM([Sales]). Be sure to add the SUM parts of the calculation or the end result will aggregate incorrectly!
   3. Click Ok to create the calculated field.
   4. Once the field is created, find it in the list of measures to the left.
   5. Right click on it and choose Default Properties - Number Format.
   6. Set the default format to a percentage with 2 Decimal points.
2. Drag Product Sub-Category to Rows.
3. Drag the newly created Shipping Cost to Sales Ratio calculated field to Text.
Solution: The Product Sub-Category of Paper is higher than 3%. It should have a value of %3.49.




Exercise IV - Determine the top ten customers by Sales. Using sets and table calculations, determine what percentage of total profit these customers bring in.
1. Right click on Customer Name and choose Create-Set...
   1. Click on the Top tab to make the set consist of the top values.
   2. Choose By field to tell Tableau which field you’d like the top customers by.
   3. Set the values to 
      1. Top
      2. 10
      3. by Sales
      4. Sum
   4. Name the set and click Ok to create it.
2. Drag the newly created set to Rows.
3. Drag Profit to Text on the Marks card. This shows how much profit the Top 10 Customers brought in compared to everyone else.
4. Right click on Profit in the Marks card area. Choose Quick Table Calculation - Percent of Total.
Solution: Those customers in the top 10 by sales generate %5.03 of the total profit.